The BC Dairy Association is simply a mouth piece for the industry
incumbents.  This blog post highlights their pure incompetence, and
bold face lies.  Anyhow, in my spare time I broke down how wrong this
article is for a slightly more informed perspective.

Next time you write an article, Nicole, offer a modicum of respect for
the intelligence of your reader.  Apparently you posses a Masters of
Education, surely you would have learned in your time at University
how provide references that support your assertions.

So lets examine the points raised (in reverse order).

(1) Assertion:

"Some people believe that raw milk is a healthier choice and more
digestible because it contains "live" enzymes and probiotics that can
aid in digestion. This is not true. Enzymes that may be present in raw
milk are broken down in the acidic environment of the stomach. These
enzymes are not required for digestion {3} and there is no evidence to
show a beneficial probiotic profile from raw milk."

(1) Response:

First, there is a reference provided: "Potter ME et al. Unpasteurized
milk....".  When you look at this article there is NOTHING referencing
the statement that enzymes are destroyed in the stomach!  So when I
actually look up this statement I see the exact opposite!

"According to Dr. Beals, enzymes are indeed sensitive to changes in
pH, that is, to the acidity or alkalinity of the environment. With
extreme changes, the enzymes might be damaged or destroyed. Any mild
change in pH either up or down will also affect the activity of an
enzyme. Different digestive enzymes work better in lower pH while
others at higher pH. Thus it seems logical that the acidic environment
of the stomach would diminish or destroy the ability of enzymes to
function. But this is offset by the fact that fresh whole milk is a
buffer, that is an agent that keeps the pH steady. (Pasteurizing,
homogenizing and reducing the fat content of milk all reduce the
buffering capacity.)

Buffers “neutralize” the alkaline or acid environment that comes into
contact with the milk, reducing the influence of the acidic or
alkaline environment on the milk. After all, breast milk contains many
of the same enzymes as milk from cows or goats, and these enzymes play
many beneficial roles in the digestive tract. It would not make
biological sense to have these enzymes in the milk, only to be
destroyed by the acid environment of the stomach or the alkaline
environment of the small intestine.

Dr. Beals also points out that raw milk does not contain lactase, the
enzyme that breaks down the disaccharide lactose. However, beneficial
bacteria enter the milk as it is exiting the teat into the milk
container. These bacteria may produce free lactases and they may
convert lactose by their own internal metabolism. The buffering
capacity of raw milk would allow these healthy bacteria to enter the
small intestine where they can continue their work of digesting
lactose. Such bacteria also contribute to the overall health of the
intestinal tract. Raw milk contains several factors that support the
proliferation of these bacteria, including bifidus factor and special
sugars that serve as food for the bacteria. As with enzymes, it does
not make biological sense for all these factors to be present in raw
milk only to have them destroyed in the stomach." [1]

(2) Assertion:

Why raw milk is unsafe.  Here we have a link to a PDF document.  It
refers to two universities and one government department.  Assuming
the university is less biased, I picked Cornell over Kansas state to
see it's sources.  This points to a website: "www.milkfacts.info".
Why does a university maintain a website apart from the official
university website?  Why is it not a *.edu website?  Skimming through
it I was curious about the section: "Antibiotics in Milk", that read
like an industry promotion, a small snippet:

"Antibiotics are used on many farms to treat mastitis infections. Cows
under antibiotic treatment for mastitis infections may have antibiotic
residues in their milk, therefore, milk from treated cows is either
discarded or collected into a separate tank. Milk containing
antibiotic residues is not used for human consumption. The legal
standard, as defined by the FDA, requires that milk contain no
detectable antibiotics when analyzed using approved test methods
(Grade A Pasteurized Milk Ordinance, 2007)."

(2) Response:

Yet I find contrary statements:

    "BGH will also decrease the body fat of cows. Unfortunately, the
body fat of cows is already contaminated with a wide range of
carcinogens, pesticides, dioxin, and antibiotic residues. When the
cows have less body fat, these toxic substances are then transported
into the cows' milk. BGH also causes the cows to have an increase in
breast infections
    Prior to BGH, 38% of milk sampled nationally was already
contaminated by illegal residues of antibiotics and animal drugs. This
will only increase with the use of BGH. One can only wonder what the
long term complications will be for drinking milk that has a 50%
chance it is contaminated with antibiotics.  for which they must
receive additional antibiotics." [2]
    
(3) Assertion:

Pasteurization does not alter the nutritional value of milk.

(3) Response:

This one was dead simple.  I simply looked at the reference title: 

"Effect of several heat treatments and frozen storage on thiamine,
riboflavin, and ascorbic acid content of milk."

Uhh, you're the one who mentions Vitamin A and D in milk.  This
article talks about three factors and you conflate that into milks
entire nutritional value?

    "This statement is erroneous, misleading, and factually
incorrect. Many nutrients and immune-enhancing components are
destroyed by exposure to high heat and the temperatures used during
pasteurization. Vitamin A is degraded, proteins and enzymes are
denatured, and immunoglobulins are destroyed.
    Regarding vitamin A, an important fat-soluble nutrient, a paper on
this subject published in January, 2000 contains the following
statement in the abstract. 'Vitamin A is very sensitive to
chemical degradation caused by oxygen, light, heat, and other stress
factors. If light and oxygen are excluded, the dominant degradation
reaction for vitamin A derivatives is heat-induced formation of
kitols, that is, dimers or higher oligomers'" [3] [4]

(4) Assertion:

Raw milk contains virtually no vitamin D.

(4) Response:

The reference sited has nothing to do with the assertion...starting to
see a pattern here?  This statement is so absurd since it's basically
the opposite statement that is true, that pasturized milk is in fact
the type of milk that has virtually no metabolically available vitamin D

    "The bottom line is that pasteurization (a process of heat
treating milk to kill bacteria developed by Louis Pasteur for
preserving beer and wine, not milk) not only kills friendly bacteria
but also destroys the nutrient content of the milk.
    Pasteurized milk has up to a 66 percent loss of vitamins A, D and
E. Vitamin C loss usually exceeds 50 percent. Heat affects water
soluble vitamins and can make them 38 percent to 80 percent less
effective. Vitamins B6 and B12 are completely destroyed during
pasteurization. Pasteurization also destroys beneficial enzymes,
antibodies and hormones.
    Pasteurization destroys lipase (an enzyme that breaks down fat),
which impairs fat metabolism and the ability to properly absorb fat
soluble vitamins A and D. (The dairy industry is aware of the
diminished vitamin D content in commercial milk, so they fortify it
with a form of this vitamin." [5]

REFERENCES

[1] Ted Beals, MS, MD, is a physician and board certified pathologist, who
served on the faculty of University of Michigan Medical School. He is
now retired after 31 years of clinical and administrative service in
the Veterans Health Administration. A pathologist with personal
interest in dairy testing and safety of milk, he has been presenting
testimony on dairy safety in North America for the last several years.

[2] http://www.mercola.com/article/milk/no-milk.htm

[3] (Runge FE and Heger R. Use of microcalorimetry in monitoring
stability studies. J Agric Food Chem. 2000 Jan;48(1):47-55).

[4] http://www.realmilk.com/health/pasteurization-does-harm-real-milk/

[5]
http://www.thedailygreen.com/living-green/blogs/organic-parenting/raw-milk-55061801

[6]
http://www.westonaprice.org/making-it-practical/milk-it-does-a-body-good
